Hello everybody and welcome.
In this lecture we're going to combine two separate blender files in this case our bowling ball and
bowling pin together into one blend file.
Let's find out more.
Okay so we've got our default cube in the scene at the moment.
Let's go ahead and bring in a different object from a different blend file.
So first of all we'd go to the File menu when we've done that.
You think we'd go to import and you would be right if it was anything else other than a blend file.
When it comes to blend files you have two options.
You can link or you can append.
In this case we're going to append rather than link we'll cover linking later on in the course.
So let's go to append and we get a couple of options.
As you can see I've been browsing here at the moment.
So let's come out all the way to our blend level.
So here we go we've got a bowling ball and a bowling pin.
I'm going to go grab the ball.
So I go ahead and click on that and it suddenly becomes apparent.
That's the blend file is more complicated than it first seems.
You can see here we can start importing or in this case appending lots of different things.
In this case if we'd use brushes the camera collections freestyle lines etc. etc..
So this is incredibly versatile.
This means we can pick up perhaps materials from another file in fact if we have a look.
The bowling ball I know I haven't applied a material to.
So looking down this list there aren't any materials in it.
If I was to come out and go to my bowling pin notice that it's got materials it's got an extra data
block that we can dive into and there we go.
We've got our pin and our pin striped material pretty cool how we can import those.
OK.
So what do we need to do here.
Well let's go up a level and go back to our bowling ball because that's what we are working on for the
moment because we're importing simple objects.
We'll need to have a look at our objects.
So let's click on objects and we can see this is exactly the same as what we would see in the top right
in the outliner.
The bowling ball the camera and the light.
And if we were to go and have a look at the pin we see that it has more.
It would have the pin reference, the pin, curve, et cetera.
So let's go ahead and select our bowling ball and append from library.
If I just move it around we can see that it is quite small I can focus on it with the number pad but
it's here and it's ready to go.
How cool is that.
So let's go ahead and go file append come out twice to go up.
There we go bowling pin.
Oh we've got a few more here.
As we've explored before we've got a curve as well.
That's the additional one that's in there.
And we've got these materials as we've discussed this go to the object and let's go to the bowling pin.
That's the only one we need to import, append from library.
I can't see the bowling pin I'm going to select it and press the number pad full stop.
It's inside our cube.
Let's get rid of the cube, bye bye cube.
OK.
So let's go to lookdev mode.
So when we import an object if it has materials assigned to it those materials also come across.
That's a useful thing to know.
And when we have a look at our bowling ball which has been shelved over here it doesn't have any material.
So objects will bring their materials with them.
That's important to know.
And there we go.
That's the basics that you need to know when it comes to importing different objects from different
blend files into the one you're working on.
And now it's time for your challenge.
Okay so your challenge.
If your ball like mine doesn't have a material yet, go ahead and add one. Then import the pin and ball
into a new blend file, set up a little scene with ten pins in it and then render the scene and share.
Now I'll be a bit more adventurous than you might do normally.
You could set up a simple scene with the ten pins in it or you could have the ball in the scene just
smashing through the first pin.
It's entirely up to you how you decide to set that up.
Pause a video now and give that a go, OK everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead and set up a little scene with 10 pins and the ball in it. OK.
Well I could continue from here but I'm not I'm going to go and look up a new blend file and now I'm
going to append into it our bowling pin.
Well it's already there and might as well and I'm going to append up and up the bowling ball object.
Oh no I haven't append.
I haven't done the material on the ball yet.
So when I go to my bowling ball and let's add a material to it I'm going to call it ball and I'm going
to colour it slightly differently I'm going to make it a blue ball a dark, a darker blue ball that is once
again quite shiny look in that mirror finished.
Not quite as back off just a little perhaps around there, looks pretty sweet to me I'm going to save that.
OK now I've I've done that now I can go new general OK that's deletes the cube append in the bowling
pin and then append in the bowling ball object bowling ball OK.
Now before I do anything else in file save and save it as bowling.
That's always a good way to start right.
The ball itself.
I'm going to go G Y and just move it along here so it's out of shot and I'm going to use this pin as
the first one of many.
Now I think it goes one two.
I'm not sure.
One two three four five six seven.
Yeah.
OK so I've got one duplication to do but I'm going to use the increments here to space them out now
won't be accurate spacing.
If you've done that yourself bravo.
That's brilliant.
Going really use an absolute grid snap here so I'm going to duplicate this and it's not snapping to
grid I'm gonna turn it on.
There we go.
So I'm going to set that up there and there, I'm going to duplicate again.
Oh shift and D, There,
And then I can get, grab these two shift and D again and one final one that looks a bit squashed actually
doing it like that.
Let's move those up and then here move that back again.
Yes.
I'm going to select all of these.
Move them all one back.
Okay.
That looks much better.
So the final thing we need to do here is this one should be roughly there.
And again here to there.
Boom.
Okay.
That looks great.
Let's add in a mesh a nice plane and I'm going to scale it along the Y axis by maybe five.
The ball has been chopped in half.
Let's go.
G Y and move that back a little and I'm happy with it looking like that's in fact I'm going to go
G Y move it here, I'm gonna make the runway ,the bowling alley itself runway why am I thinking. I'm gonna
make give it a material it's also gonna be shiny but I'm gonna give it kind of a yellow color I think.
I'm going to switch onto lookdev so I can just see how things are looking that's looking pretty sweet so i'm going to
lift my ball up now I can't remember what diameter it was now so I'm just going to eyeball it it doesn't
really matter if it's not perfect.
There we go.
Let's have a look back round.
And yes that's looking awesome.
So the next thing for me to do here is make sure that the ball and camera and everything else is aligned.
That will be a really boring render.
Let's come in a little bit closer so shift and the grave key holding down shift again just to move a
little bit quicker I'm not going to speed it up because I often get things horribly wrong when I do
do that.
How about that.
OK.
So I think the camera's all set up.
Let's go ahead and render it out.
Excellent.
That's coming along really nicely.
Now there are a couple of things that we can sort out here we can play with the lighting we can tweak
the shadows.
We could play with the ball a little bit more.
So there's lots that we could do and we will get to that very soon when we start tweaking our rendering
settings.
But that's a pretty good end product.
I'm going to go to image and save image so I can render that out and share it with you guys as well.
So there we go that saved and ready to share.
How did you guys get on.
I'm looking forward to seeing what scenes you've created.
Please share them in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.